Process and Policy Pages for Submitting Data (#1627)
agrc/gis.utah.gov: sharing/process/index.md

---
tags:
  - sharing
author:
  display_name: AGRC Office
  email: agrc@utah.gov
date: 2017-01-26 23:40:06
title: Submitting Data to the SGID
categories: []
---

Thank you for wanting to share your data with the SGID! We've put together a few processes to make sure your datasets are added to the right place. We use [issues](https://guides.github.com/features/issues/) in our [Porter](https://github.com/agrc/porter/issues) repository on GitHub to track where a dataset is at in the process and keep an open and transparent record of everything that happened.

If you're not sure which part of the SGID you should share your data with, check out our sharing [introduction]({% link sharing/index.md %}#join-the-party) for an overview.

If you've still got questions after reading this, {% include contact.html subject="SGID Data Additions" contact=site.data.contacts.sgid text='reach out to ' hide-punctuation=true %}, or anyone else on the [AGRC team]({% link about/contact/index.html %}).

## Contributing Data to an Existing Dataset

> If you have data you'd like to add to an existing dataset, please check the data page for the contact info of the AGRC staffer responsible. If none are listed, please reach out via our main email. We are happy to work with authoritative stewards and other qualified individuals to improve our data

Reviewer: missing punctuation
```suggestion
If you have data you'd like to add to an existing dataset, please check the data page for the contact info of the AGRC staffer responsible. If none are listed, please reach out via our main email. We are happy to work with authoritative stewards and other qualified individuals to improve our data.
```

## Submitting New Datasets

> No matter where your datasets fit best—SGID Index, Open Data, or Open SGID—the process begins with the same first two steps: first, making sure your datasets meet the relevant [qualifications]({% link about/policy/sgid/index.md %}) and then opening an issue in [Porter](https://github.com/agrc/porter/issues) using the relevant template.

Reviewer: **thought**: we should consider offering help to fill this out for first timers as it is probably a bit of a scary task. After doing it once, it will probably be more approachable without hand holding? Maybe a quick movie could be used to describe the process?

Each template includes questions about your data. We'd appreciate it if you fill all these out when you first submit your datasets. Otherwise, the issue will be put on hold until this information is provided.

### SGID Index
{: .text-left}

> It's quite simple to list [qualifying]({% link about/policy/sgid/index.md %}) data in the SGID Index. After you submit an issue in Porter using the "Add data to the SGID Index template, we will review your submission against the qualifications and reach out with any questions. Once we've worked together to resovle any questions or problems, we'll add your dataset to the Index and close the issue.

Reviewer: branding and spelling
```suggestion
It's quite simple to list [qualifying]({% link about/policy/sgid/index.md %}) data in the SGID Index. After you submit an issue in Porter using the "Add data to the SGID Index template, we will review your submission against the qualifications and reach out with any questions. Once we've worked together to resolve any questions or problems, we'll add your dataset to the SGID Index and close the issue.
```

### Open Data
{: .text-left}

> Adding data to [opendata.gis.utah.gov](https://opendata.gis.utah.gov) requires a few additional steps to navigate the ArcGIS Online sharing mechanics. This time you'll use the "Add data to Open Data" issue template. After the issue is opened, you'll need to request access to the [Open Data Staging Group](https://utah.maps.arcgis.com/home/group.html?id=3d3bd0d238f24f45b2c4b84f1015a317) in ArcGIS Online. This is a staging group that allows us to review the dataset before sharing it through Open Data.

Reviewer: **question**: have you started to create these new issue templates?

Author: Nope, not yet (https://github.com/agrc/porter/issues/88). I intend to do that once the pages are drafted, and then incorporate any needed changes back into the pages. I'll build off your work restructuring the templates.

> Adding data to [opendata.gis.utah.gov](https://opendata.gis.utah.gov) requires a few additional steps to navigate the ArcGIS Online sharing mechanics. This time you'll use the "Add data to Open Data" issue template. After the issue is opened, you'll need to request access to the [Open Data Staging Group](https://utah.maps.arcgis.com/home/group.html?id=3d3bd0d238f24f45b2c4b84f1015a317) in ArcGIS Online. This is a staging group that allows us to review the dataset before sharing it through Open Data.

Reviewer: style? i prefer quotes for quotie things and ticks for button or menu or copy paste text.
```suggestion
Adding data to [opendata.gis.utah.gov](https://opendata.gis.utah.gov) requires a few additional steps to navigate the ArcGIS Online sharing mechanics. This time you'll use the `Add data to Open Data` issue template. After the issue is opened, you'll need to request access to the [Open Data Staging Group](https://utah.maps.arcgis.com/home/group.html?id=3d3bd0d238f24f45b2c4b84f1015a317) in ArcGIS Online. This is a staging group that allows us to review the dataset before sharing it through Open Data.
```

Author: Good catch- my brain forgot markdown for a day.

Once we've verified the dataset meets the qualifications, you can share it with the appropriate Utah SGID ArcGIS Online group. All items in these groups are automatically added to Open Data. If this is your first time sharing a data with the particular group, you'll need to request access to the group.

Datasets that languish in the staging group, or that are added to a Utah SGID group without approval, may be removed according to our [policies]({% link about/policy/open-data/index.md %}).

### Open SGID and ArcGIS Online
{: .text-left}

The Open SGID is the latest evolution of the traditional "SGID as a single geospatial database" model. Maintaining data in the Open SGID requires the most work, both on the front end and for long-term maintenance. We encourage you to share your data via Open Data or the SGID Index whenever possible. However, we may pull some datasets into the Open SGID that otherwise belong elsewhere in order to maintain consistency and familiarity with previous versions of the SGID geodatabase. This is done at our discretion according to our [policies]({% link about/policy/open-sgid/index.md %}).

> After opening an issue with the "Add data to the Open SGID" template, you'll need to reach out and arrange the best way to transfer your data to us for the first review. We can download data from a cloud storage solution (Google Drive, Dropbox, etc), pull it in from an ArcGIS Online Map or Feature Service, set up an FTP share for you to upload it to, or just have you email us a zipped shapefile or GDB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After opening an issue with the `Add data to the Open SGID` template, you'll need to reach out and arrange the best way to transfer your data to us for the first review. We can download data from a cloud storage solution (Google Drive, Dropbox, etc), pull it in from an ArcGIS Online Map or Feature Service, set up an FTP share for you to upload it to, or just have you email us a zipped shapefile or GDB.
```

> Once we get your data, we will run [Sweeper](https://github.com/agrc/sweeper) on it to identify and fix any geometry errors that could cause problems with the database (Postgres complains about some things that Esri lets slide). We'll share the results of this with you as a courtesy; while you're under no obligation to change your source data, doing so will help streamline any future data updates.

Reviewer: simplify - no need to throw anyone under a bus
```suggestion
Once we get your data, we will run [Sweeper](https://github.com/agrc/sweeper) on it to identify and fix common data errors. We'll share the results of this with you as a courtesy; while you're under no obligation to change your source data, doing so will help streamline any future data updates.
```

Author: thought: that makes sense. However, I also want to avoid the impression that we'll be going in and reviewing other people's data for accuracy, etc—"common data errors" leaves a lot of room for misinterpretation. I think people would also be puzzled (like we were) that data that works fine in their GDB is causing issues in Postgres. Maybe something like "fix empty and duplicate geometries." 

I was under the impression that sweeper also did geometry validation checks, but it looks like that was just stubbed out. Was that just part of the initial preparation for moving data to Open SGID?

Reviewer: Fixing empty geometry and identifying duplicate rows and geometries is exactly what sweeper does so I'm good with that description. It also does the metadata checks as well right?

When brainstorming sweeper we wanted it to validate geometry but no one implemented it for some reasons.

What you are remembering is the difference of implementation for the isvalid method in sqlserver and postgresql. The cloudb has to run makevalid over every dataset after the data is loaded in pg.

Author: Looking at the docs it does do metadata, I just don't know which commands are run when we pull data in.

IIUC, any data getting pulled into Open SGID is fixed by makevalid at some point. Is it worth mentioning that here, or is that too in the weeds?

Reviewer: Yah I'm not sure what @gregbunce does either. I assume it might be different than what is planned to be automated for the internal SGID but that isn't set up yet.

I think the makvalid is an implementation detail that invokes rule #1, "no one cares"

> Nothing is worse than outdated data. If you can't find any data, you know that you may not know what's going on. But, if you find outdated data, you may not know that you are acting on bad data. Consequently, once your dataset has been accepted into the Open SGID, it's important you send any data updates to us. We'll work with you to identify the best way to feed updates into Open SGID as part of the submission process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Nothing is worse than outdated data. If you can't find any data, you know that you may not know what's going on. But, if you find outdated data, you may not know that you are acting on bad data. Consequently, once your dataset has been accepted into the Open SGID, it's important you send any data updates to us. We'll work with you to identify the best way to feed updates into the Open SGID as part of the submission process.
```

> As part of the Open SGID process, we will also upload your dataset to our own ArcGIS Online organization as a hosted feature service and share it publicly through Open Data. We will add an AGRC-branded thumbnail specific to the relevant SGID category to the its ArcGIS Online item to help people searching ArcGIS Online identify SGID data.

Reviewer: readability?
```suggestion
As part of the Open SGID process, we will also upload your dataset to our ArcGIS Online organization as a hosted feature service and share it publicly through Open Data. We will add an AGRC-branded thumbnail specific to the relevant SGID category and its ArcGIS Online item to help people searching ArcGIS Online identify SGID data.
```

Author: Yeah, let me take another stab at that.

Author: How does the new version read to you?

---
tags:
  - sharing
author:
  display_name: AGRC Office
  email: agrc@utah.gov
date: 2020-01-13 17:00:00
title: Submitting Data to the SGID
categories: []
---

> Thank you for wanting to share your data with the SGID! We've put together a few processes to make sure your datasets are added to the right place. We use [issues](https://guides.github.com/features/issues/) in our [Porter](https://github.com/agrc/porter/issues) repository on GitHub to track where a dataset is at in the process and keep an open and transparent record of everything that happened.

Reviewer 2: Minor grammatical/wording suggestion
```suggestion
Thank you for wanting to share your data with the SGID! We've put together a few processes to make sure your datasets are added to the right place. We use [issues](https://guides.github.com/features/issues/) in our [Porter](https://github.com/agrc/porter/issues) repository on GitHub to track a dataset's progress and keep an open and transparent record of everything that happened.
```

If you're not sure which part of the SGID you should share your data with, check out our sharing [introduction]({% link sharing/index.md %}#join-the-party) for an overview.

If you've still got questions after reading this, {% include contact.html subject="SGID Data Additions" contact=site.data.contacts.sgid text='reach out to ' hide-punctuation=true %}, or anyone else on the [AGRC team]({% link about/contact/index.html %}).

## Contributing Data to an Existing Dataset

If you have data you'd like to add to an existing dataset, please check the data page for the contact info of the AGRC staffer responsible. If none are listed, please {% include contact.html subject="SGID Data Additions — Existing Dataset" contact=site.data.contacts.agrc text='reach out to ' hide-punctuation=true %}. We are happy to work with authoritative stewards and other qualified individuals to improve our data.

## Submitting New Datasets

> No matter where your datasets fit best—SGID Index, Open Data, or Open SGID—the process begins with the same first two steps: first, making sure your datasets meet the relevant [qualifications]({% link about/policy/sgid/index.md %}) and then opening an issue in [Porter](https://github.com/agrc/porter/issues) using the relevant template.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
No matter where your datasets fit best—SGID Index, Open Data, or Open SGID—the process begins with the same first two steps: first, making sure your datasets meet the relevant [qualifications]({% link about/policy/sgid/index.md %}) and then [opening an issue](https://github.com/agrc/porter/issues/new/choose) in [Porter](https://github.com/agrc/porter/issues) using the relevant template.
```

Each template includes questions about your data. We'd appreciate it if you fill all these out when you first submit your datasets. Otherwise, the issue will be put on hold until this information is provided.

If you're new to all this, please don't hesitate to {% include contact.html subject="SGID Data Additions" contact=site.data.contacts.agrc text='reach out to ' hide-punctuation=true %}. We're happy to help guide you through the process.

### SGID Index
{: .text-left}

> It's quite simple to list [qualifying]({% link about/policy/sgid/index.md %}#sgid-index-qualifications) data in the SGID Index. After you submit an issue in Porter using the `Add external data links to the SGID Index` template, we will review your submission against the qualifications and reach out with any questions. Once we've worked together to resolve any questions or problems, we'll add your dataset to the SGID Index and close the issue.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It's quite simple to list [qualifying]({% link about/policy/sgid/index.md %}#sgid-index-qualifications) data in the SGID Index. After you [submit an issue](https://github.com/agrc/porter/issues/new/choose) in Porter using the `Add external data links to the SGID Index` template, we will review your submission against the qualifications and reach out with any questions. Once we've worked together to resolve any questions or problems, we'll add your dataset to the SGID Index and close the issue.
```

### Open Data
{: .text-left}

Adding data to [opendata.gis.utah.gov](https://opendata.gis.utah.gov) requires a few additional steps to navigate the ArcGIS Online sharing mechanics. This time you'll use the `Add data to Open Data` issue template. After the issue is opened, you'll need to request access to the [Open Data Staging Group](https://utah.maps.arcgis.com/home/group.html?id=3d3bd0d238f24f45b2c4b84f1015a317) in ArcGIS Online. This is a staging group that allows us to review the dataset before sharing it through Open Data.

> Once we've verified the dataset meets the qualifications, you can share it with the appropriate Utah SGID ArcGIS Online group. All items in these groups are automatically added to Open Data. If this is your first time sharing a data with the particular group, you'll need to request access to the group.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Once we've verified the dataset meets [the qualifications]({% link about/policy/sgid/index.md %}#open-data-qualifications), you can share it with the appropriate Utah SGID ArcGIS Online group. All items in these groups are automatically added to Open Data. If this is your first time sharing a data with the particular group, you'll need to request access to the group.
```

Datasets that languish in the staging group, or that are added to a Utah SGID group without approval, may be removed according to our [policies]({% link about/policy/sgid/index.md %}#reasons-for-removal).

It is critical to provide complete metadata so that Open Data stays clean and easy to use. We've tracked down the sources of the information shown in the Open Data list view to help you understand where the information comes from:

> ![An annotated Open Data item]({% link images/od_card_anno.png %}){: .flex .flex--center loading="lazy" }

Reviewer 3: **praise**: This is such an awesome graphic.

##### A Note about Open Data "Sources"

> You should only have one "Source" for all the datasets coming from your organization. Esri explains where this value comes from [in this FAQ](https://doc.arcgis.com/en/hub/get-started/frequently-asked-questions.htm#GUID-9843B713-46D2-4938-A961-EC0CD81AE410). Basically, it first searches the ArcGIS Online item's metadata for an organization name. If it doesn't find anything there, it falls back to your ArcGIS organization name.
>

> > To customize the source, we suggest setting it in the `Resource > Citation > Contact > Organization Name` metadata field. Otherwise, leave the metadata contact fields empty so it uses up your ArcGIS Online organization name. We use this second way to show "Utah Automated Geographic Reference Center (AGRC)" as the source for all our datasets.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
> To customize the source, we suggest setting it in the `Resource > Citation > Contact > Organization Name` metadata field. Otherwise, leave the metadata contact fields empty so it uses your ArcGIS Online organization name. We use this second way to show "Utah Automated Geographic Reference Center (AGRC)" as the source for all our datasets.
```

>
> To change the organization name in the ArcGIS Online item's metadata, you need to make sure your ArcGIS Online organization has [metadata enabled](https://doc.arcgis.com/en/arcgis-online/administer/configure-details.htm#ESRI_SECTION1_7FE1F060E03046E692BB36E5F6E3B2AE). Then you can use the Metadata editor on the ArcGIS Online item page to set either field:
>
>![Organization name sources in ArcGIS Online metadata]({% link images/od_agol_md.png %}){: .flex .flex--center .outline loading="lazy" }
>
> Depending on how you upload or overwrite your ArcGIS Online data, it may also overwrite the item's metadata with info from the source feature class metadata. We suggest you make any changes in both the feature class and ArcGIS Online metadata to avoid problems in the future. In the FGDC CSDGM style, the `Resource > Citation > Contact > Organization Name` field is in `Overview > Citation Contacts`. The `Resource > Contact > Organization Name` field is in `Resource > Points of Contact`.
{: style="
    font-size: 100%;
    font-style: normal;
    color: #111;
    padding-left: 30px;
    padding-right: 30px;
    border-left: 2px solid #333;

>     "}

Reviewer 3: **suggestion**: The vertical bar and the indentation seem a little awkward to me for such a large section of text.

Author: Yeah, I was trying for something of a "sidebar"-style content that was more an aside to the main text (in part to break up the huge blocks of text that this page became) but it does have its limitations. I'll see if I can find a better way to fit it in to the track-based rewrite.
